<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<chapter id="introduction-3-2">
<chapterinfo>
<title>What is &quantaplus;?</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Eric</firstname>
<surname>Laffoon</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>sequitur@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Christopher</firstname>
<surname>Hornbaker</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>chrishornbaker@earthlink.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Fabrice</firstname>
<surname>Mous</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>fabrice@kde.nl</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>
</chapterinfo>

<title>What is &quantaplus;?</title>

<blockquote>
<attribution>
Eric Laffoon at http://quanta.sourceforge.net
</attribution>

<para>
&quantaplus; is a web development tool for the K Desktop Environment.
&quantaplus; is designed for quick web development and is rapidly becoming
a mature editor with a number of great features.
</para>
<para>
Our objective remains to create the very best web development tool
anywhere. We realize that we will need many more people active to
accomplish this, so we are in the process of developing enhancements geared
toward making it easy for web developers to customize, extend, and enhance
&quantaplus;. Then we will be asking you, the web developers, to contribute
your feature enhancements. We will organize these so that &quantaplus; web
developers can find just the resources, extensions and custom plug-ins
they need to be the most kick butt developers ever.
</para>
</blockquote>

<sect1 id="quanta-intro-3-2">
<sect1info>
<title>&quantaplus;: Where It Was And Where It Is Going</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Robert</firstname>
<surname>Nickel</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>robert@artnickel.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Christopher</firstname>
<surname>Hornbaker</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>chrishornbaker@earthlink.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Fabrice</firstname>
<surname>Mous</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>fabrice@kde.nl</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>
</sect1info>

<title>&quantaplus;: Where It Was And Where It Is Going</title>

<para>
While striving to become the best &HTML; editor, the developers of
&quantaplus; began to think about a rather intriguing idea: <quote>What if
&quantaplus; was a generic, extensible, markup language editor?</quote>
Well, that would only make it the greatest Web Development Environment
for &kde;! So it was done.
</para>

<para>
No longer bound to &HTML;, &quantaplus; is now well on its way to becoming
an all-purpose Web Development Environment. Essentially, if you can define
it in &XML;, then &quantaplus; should be able to serve as an &IDE; for it.
</para>

<para>
Now, with the above said, it must be noted that &quantaplus; is an
outgrowth of the outstanding efforts that have been put forth by the
entire &kde; development community. &quantaplus;, in celebration of open
source, uses the idea of <quote>Why write something somebody already
wrote?</quote> Thanks to &kde;'s framework, not only is this possible, but
it also allows users and developers to extend &quantaplus; to match their
unique needs.
</para>

<para>
&quantaplus; provides web developers with an intuitive and powerful
multiple document interface (&MDI;). It can dramatically increase your
productivity. Through the use of custom actions, scripting, and toolbars,
you can automate almost any task. With the use of <application>
Kommander</application>, you can extend &quantaplus; in a manner in which
you never have to remember scripting command syntax again. (More about this
can be found in <xref linkend="extending-quanta-3-2" />.)
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>
