<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<chapter id="faq-3-2">
<chapterinfo>
<title>Questions and Answers</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Eric</firstname>
<surname>Laffoon</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>sequitur@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
How can I help &quantaplus; development?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
We would be remiss not to point out that &quantaplus; is being built by
volunteers. Many people feel they cannot contribute to the open
source cause for one reason or another. Probably the greatest being a
feeling they do not have the skills. &quantaplus; has been developed in a
manner that allows both non-programmers and programmers help extend
&quantaplus;. There is also the issue of documentation. Software, be it
proprietary or Free/open source, is only as good as its documentation.
We are sure there is a place in &quantaplus; where your time will be most
beneficial.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
Where is &quantaplus; going from here?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
We have released &quantaplus; 3.4 and are now in preparation for the next major
release. The targeted 4.0 release is a partial rewrite of Quanta to use the 
features ofered by the KDevelop framework.
Our objective remains to create the very best web development
environment. We realize that we will need many more people actively developing
&quantaplus; to accomplish this, so we are in the process of developing
enhancements geared toward making it easy for web developers to
customize, extend, and enhance &quantaplus;. Much of this has been
accomplished with the 3.4 release. Soon will be asking you, the web
developers, to contribute your feature enhancements. We will organize
these so that &quantaplus; web developers can find just the resources,
extensions, and custom plug-ins they need to be the most reliable,
professional developers ever!
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>
